---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Meteor Gotchas"
date: 2017-10-19
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
---

My experience with Meteor so far has overall been a positive experience. There have been a couple of issues that I did run into though. The first issue, and a still on going issue, is that I sometimes have trouble keep track of the file structure of projects. 

One issue with Meteor is that there are files everywhere. It can become quite cumbersome when there is a software bug some where in your code, then you have the arduous task of trying to locate where the bug is originating and then squash it. With files everywhere sometimes you have to have 5 or 6 other files open to locate the bug. Another issues that falls into the same category is that naming conventions for all of them the different types of code structures, for example you have conventions for templates, schemes, variables, file names, etc. I do understand why the file structure and naming conventions exist, but those issues can make learning meteor a pill. I think eventually over time as you get used to making more and more apps those issues will work themselves out.

Other than the issues I have posted above, I didn't really have any other issues with Meteor. In fact overall I am really enjoying the experience that I am having with Meteor. I enjoy the fact that there are things that are already made for you to use like an authentication system for you use by just typing in a few lines of code. I enjoy that included with the initial creation of your app it is already hooked up to Mongo DB. I enjoy that you can add more modules to meteor to increase the functionality of your app. 

So while Meteor can have a pretty steep initial learning curve, I think as you become more proficient with Meteor it can save you time in the long run. You just have to commit to the upfront cost of learning Meteor and eventually it will save you time in the future. 
